STUBS
=====


Overview
--------

* What it is

  The STUBS Toolchain and Utility Build Suite is a set of scripts
driven by pre-written configuration files, which builds one or more
software packages in sequence. STUBS is designed to work in very
minimal environments -including those without 'make'- and URLs are
included to permit downloading source and patches beforehand. Among
configuration files and scripts provided are the facilities to create
boot media for Franki/Earlgrey Linux (one of several example
busybox- and uClibc-based Linux environments) and the intention is
that STUBS can enable such a system to rebuild itself.

* What it Isn't

  STUBS is not a replacement for 'make'; it assumes the dependencies
any packages have will have been satisfied in advance, i.e. the
absense of software not yet built will abort the build, rather than
automatically prompting the necessary builds. Individual build steps
can be managed by Makefiles or shell scripts, which alleviates some
instances where this is a problem.


Build Process
=============

  At the top level of its configuration, STUBS has settings for where
temporary directories should reside. The next level down is
configuration for the current project, which has some number of stages
and further files for each that list the packages to be built. Top
level configuration can be reported and modified through
scripts/stubs-configure and project build stages through
scripts/project-configure.
  The stage configuration files are lists of the packages to be
built and contain a hint regarding how they should be invoked to do
their job.
